Psalm 38-45
O Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath, Neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure.
For thine arrow-stick fasted me, And thy hand presseth me sore.
There is no soundness in my flesh Because of thine anger,
Neither is there any rest In my bones because of my sin.
For my iniquities are gone over my head As in heavy burden, they are too heavy for me.
My wounds stink and are corrupt Because of my foolishness.
I am troubled, I am bowed down greatly, I go mourning all the day long.
For my loins are filled with a lonesome disease, And there is no soundness in my flesh.
I am feeble and sore broken, I have roared By reason of the disquietness of my heart.
Lord, all my desire is before thee, And my groaning is not hid from thee.
My heart panteth, my strength faileth me, As for the light of mine eyes it also is gone from me.
My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my sore, And my kinsmen stand afar off.
They also that seek after my life lay snares for me, And they that seek my hurt speak mischievous
things, And imagine deceits all the day long.
But I as a deaf man heard not, And I was as a dumb man that opened not his mouth.
Thus I was as a man that heareth not, And whose mouth are no reproofs.
For in thee, O Lord, do I hope thou wilt hear, O Lord my God.
For I said, Hear me, lest otherwise they should rejoice over me.
When my foot slipeth, they magnify themselves against me.
For I am ready to halt, and my sorrow is continually before me.
For I will declare mine iniquity, I will be sorry for my sin.
But mine enemies are lively, and they are strong, And they that hate me wrongfully are
multiplied.
They also that render evil for good are mine adversaries, Because I follow the thing that
good is.
Forsake me not, O Lord, O my God, be not far from me.
Make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation.
Psalm 39
I said I will take heed to my ways, That I sin not with my tongue.
I will keep my mouth with a bridle While the wicked is before me.
I was dumb with silence, I held my peace, Even from good, and my sorrow was stirred.
My heart was hot within me, While I was musing the fire burned,
Then spake I with my tongue.
Lord, make me to know mine end, And the measure of my days,
What it is that I may know how frail I am.
Behold, thou hast made my days as in hand-breadth, And mine age is as nothing before thee.
Verily, every man and his best date Is altogether vanity.
Selah!
Surely every man walketh in a vain shoe, Surely they are disquieted in vain.
He heapeth up riches, and knoweth not Who shall gather them.
And now, Lord, what wait I for?
My hope is in thee.
Deliver me from all my transgressions.
Make me not the reproach of the foolish.
I was dumb, I opened not my mouth, Because thou didst it.
Remove thy stroke away from me, I am consumed By the blow of thine hand.
When thou with rebukes dost correct man for iniquity,
Thou makest his beauty to consume away like a moth.
Surely every man is vanity.
Selah!
Hear my prayer, O Lord, and give ear unto my cry.
Hold not thy peace at my tears, For I am a stranger with thee,
And a sojourner, as all my fathers were.
O spare me that I may recover strength Before I go hence, and be no more.
Psalm 40
I waited patiently for the Lord, And he inclined unto me and heard my cry.
He brought me up also out of an horrible pit, Out of the miry clay,
And set my feet upon a rock, And established my goings.
And he hath put a new song in my mouth, Even praise unto our God.
Many shall see it and fear, And shall trust in the Lord.
Blessed is that man that maketh the Lord his trust,
And respecteth not the proud, Nor such as turn aside to lies.
Many, O Lord my God, are thy wonderful works, What thou hast done,
And thy thoughts, which are to usward, They cannot be reckoned up in order unto thee.
If I would declare and speak of them, They are more than can be numbered.
Sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire.
Mine ears hast thou opened, burnt offering And sin offering hast thou not required.
Then said I, Lo, I come. In the volume of the book it is written of me.
I delight to do thy will, O my God. Yea, thy law is within my heart.
I have preached righteousness in the great congregation. Lo, I have not refrained my lips,
O Lord thou knowest. I have not hid thy righteousness within my heart.
I have declared thy faithfulness and thy salvation.
I have not concealed thy loving kindnesses And thy truth from the great congregation.
Withhold not thou thy tender mercies from me, O Lord.
Let thy loving kindnesses and thy truth continually preserve me.
For innumerable evils have compassed me about.
Mine iniquities have taken hold upon me, So that I am not able to look up.
They are more than the hairs of mine head. Therefore my heart faileth me.
Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me. O Lord, make haste to help me.
Let them be ashamed and confounded together That seek after my soul to destroy it.
Let them be driven backward, Put to shame, that wish me evil.
Let them be desolate for a reward of their shame That say unto me, Ha ha, ha ha.
Let all those that seek thee Rejoice and be glad in thee.
Let such as love thy salvation Say continually the Lord be magnified.
But I am poor and needy, Yet the Lord thinketh upon me.
Thou art my help and my deliverer. Make no tarrying, O my God.
Psalm 41
Blessed is he that considereth the poor. The Lord will deliver him in time of trouble.
The Lord will preserve him and keep him alive, And he shall be blessed upon the earth,
And thou wilt deliver him unto the will of his enemies.
The Lord will strengthen him upon the bed of languishing.
Thou wilt make all his bed in his sickness.
I said, Lord, be merciful unto me. Heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee.
Mine enemies speak evil of me. When shall he die and his name perish?
And if he come to see me, he speaketh vanity. His heart gathereth iniquity to itself.
When he goeth abroad, he telleth it. All that hate me whisper together against me.
Against me do they devise my hurt. An evil disease, say they, cleaveth fast unto him.
And now that he lieth, he shall rise up no more.
Yea, mine own familiar friend, in whom I trusted,
Which did eat of my bread, hath lifted up his heel against me.
But thou, O Lord, be merciful unto me, And raise me up, that I may requite them.
By this I know that thou favorest me, Because mine enemy doth not triumph over me.
And as for me, thou upholdest me in mine integrity,
And settest me before thy face for ever. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel,
From everlasting and to everlasting. Amen and amen.
Psalm 42
As the heart panteth after the water brooks, So panteth my soul after thee, O God.
My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God, When shall I come and appear before God?
My tears have been my meat day and night, While they continually say unto me,
Where is thy God? When I remember these things,
I pour out my soul in me. For I had gone with the multitude,
I went with them to the house of God, With the voice of joy and praise,
With the multitude that kept holy day. Why art thou cast down, O my soul,
And why art thou disquieted in me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him
For the help of his countenance. O my God, my soul is cast down within me,
Therefore will I remember thee from the land of Jordan, and of the Hermonites,
And from the hill Mizar. Deep calleth unto deep at the noise of thy waterspouts,
All thy waves and thy billows are gone over me.
Yet the Lord will command his loving-kindness in the daytime,
And in the night his song shall be with me, And my prayer unto the God of my life.
I will say unto God my rock, Why hast thou forgotten me?
Why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?
As with a sword in my bones mine enemies reproach me,
While they say daily unto me, Where is thy God?
Why art thou cast down, O my soul, And why art thou disquieted within me?
Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him, Who is the help of my countenance and my God.
Psalm 43 Judge me, O God,
And plead my cause against an ungodly nation. O deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man,
For thou art the God of my strength. Why dost thou cast me off?
Why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?
O send out thy light and thy truth, Let them lead me,
Let them bring me unto thy holy hill, Into thy tabernacles.
Then will I go unto the altar of God, Unto God my exceeding joy,
Yea, upon the harp will I praise thee, O God, my God.
Why art thou cast down, O my soul, And why art thou disquieted within me?
Hope in God, for I shall yet praise him, Who is the help of my countenance and my God.
Psalm 44 We have heard with our ears, O God,
Our fathers have told us what work thou didst in their days, In the times of old,
How thou didst drive out the heathen with thy hand, And plantest them how thou didst afflict
the people, And cast them out. For they got not the land in possession by their own sword,
Neither did their own arm save them, But thy right hand, and thine arm,
In the light of thy countenance, Because thou hadst favor unto them.
Thou art my king, O God, Command deliverances for Jacob.
Through thee will we push down our enemies, Through thy name will we tread them under
That rise up against us. For I will not trust in my bow,
Neither shall my sword save me. But thou hast saved us from our enemies,
And hast put them to shame that hated us. In God we boast all the day long,
And praise thy name forever, saila. But thou hast cast off and put us to shame,
And goest not forth with our armies. Thou makest us to turn back from the enemy,
And they which hate us spoil for themselves. Thou hast given us like sheep appointed for meat,
And hast scattered us among the heathen. Thou sellest thy people for naught,
And dost not increase thy wealth by their price. Thou makest us to reproach to our neighbors,
A scorn and a derision to them that are round about us.
Thou makest us to byword among the heathen, A shaking of the head among the people.
My confusion is continually before me, And the shame of my face has covered me.
For the voice of him that reproacheth and blasphemeth
By reason of the enemy and avenger. All this has come upon us, yet have we not forgotten thee,
Neither have we dealt falsely in thy covenant. Our heart is not turned back,
Neither have our steps declined from thy way. Though thou hast sore broken us in the place
Of dragons and covered us with the shadow of death, If we have forgotten the name of our God
Or stretched out our hands to a strange God, Shall not God search this out, for he knoweth
secrets of the heart. Yea, for thy sake are we killed all the day long,
We are counted as sheep for the slaughter. Awake, why sleepest thou, O Lord?
Arise, cast us not off for ever. Wherefore hidest thou thy face and forgetest our affliction
And our oppression? For our soul is bowed down to the dust, Our belly cleaveth unto the earth,
Arise for our help, and redeem us for thy mercy's sake.
Psalm 45.
My heart is indicting a good matter, I speak of the things,
Which I have made touching the King. My tongue is the pen of a ready writer.
Thou art fairer than the children of men, Grace is poured into thy lips,
Therefore God has blessed thee for ever, Gird thy sword upon thy thigh,
O most mighty, with thy glory and thy majesty. And in thy majesty write prosperously because
of truth and meekness and righteousness, And thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things.
Thine arrows are sharp in the heart of the King's enemies,
Whereby the people fall under thee. Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever,
The scepter of thy kingdom is a right scepter. Thou lovest righteousness and hastest wickedness,
Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee With the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
All thy garments smell of myrrh and aloes and cashew, Out of the ivory palaces whereby they
have made thee glad. King's daughters were among thy honorable women, Upon thy right hand did stand
The queen in gold of Ophir. Harken, O daughter, and consider,
And incline thy ear, forget also thine own people In thy father's house.
So shall the King greatly desire thy beauty, For he is thy Lord, and worship thou him.
And the daughter of Tyre shall be there with a gift, Even the rich among the people shall
entreat thy favor. The King's daughter is all glorious within, Her clothing is of wrought gold.
She shall be brought unto the King in raiment of needlework, The virgins or companions that
follow her shall be brought unto thee. With gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought,
They shall enter into the King's palace. Instead of thy fathers shall be thy children,
Whom thou mayest make princes in all the earth. I will make thy name to be remembered in all
generations, Therefore shall the people praise thee forever and ever.